>> Speaker 1: Let's have thumbs on it.
You lost me long ago.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 1: It was a mistake coming
here today.
I'm clear.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 1: I have clarifications.
Everybody, it's okay to
have clarifications.
Michelle has one.
Alec has one.
Paul has one.
And Paul, you kick us off.
>> Speaker 3: I'm just curious if there
are any common browser methods or
others that drop to the microtask
queues instead of the call back queue?
>> Speaker 1: So there are, so
you can go and look up.
The way you find out, you have the jobs
at spec cuz actually MDM doesn't say,
I don't think.
You got the jobs at spec and
you see where does it go?
Which queue does it go to?
Or say it'll say certain task like
I believe event dorm changes.
Dorm manipulation changes I believe,
you have to check this yourself,
go to the job queues.
I will say in the spec.
The task triggered by the dominant
page is in the job queue.
Whenever you see job queue
it means micro task queue,
versus task queue which is typically
the term they use for the call back queue.
So you can see on a feature by
feature basis in the spec which one it
get's sent to.
And by the way it's a spec.
Specs are, we may or
may not implement this way.
So for a long time,
browsers other than Chrome
through promise deferred functionality
not on the micro task queue.
They put it on the back
of the call back queue.
This is a spec.
A spec is like this is how
it should be implemented.
It's up to you.
Now, I'm pretty sure they all implement it
the same way with the micro task queue.
But it's not by default.
I mean it's not like that
is how the world must,
now it's just guidance by
the designs of your JavaScript.
Kind of crazy, but now you know why
behind the scenes is these two
things that might be in conflict.
One comes first, or the other,
in different browsers.
All right, great question, Paul.
Very nice.
Was it, who else had a clarification?
Michelle?
>> Speaker 4: So
when future data.value gets set,
it kind of seems like that escaped all of
the handling in the stack and everything,
and it's just kind of magically done
almost instantaneously, on complete.
Are we missing a step there or
is it magic?
>> Speaker 1: Everything that you do is
being handled in an event loop.
But we can assume in that case that
it's giving absolute priority,
because it is done before any
of this function execution work.
So the thing that would block
our functionality being updated.
So this value here has no interest except
in the functionality, it's kicking off.
So for our purposes, all that matters is
the functionality that's been kicked off.
So this always takes precedence,
as far as I can tell,
over anything that would
lead us to be surprised
the display is being delayed running.
>> Speaker 4: So just to-
>> Speaker 1: It'll just be one
final thing, Michelle.
The only bottleneck on display running is
our event loop prioritizing
synchronous code, not something else.
So that the value being
the block on running,
I can't see any evidence that
would have been blocked.
So we don't need to worry
about when it gets updated.
It's always gonna take precedence.
Okay, as far as I can tell.
>> Speaker 4: So it's not so
much that if you were able to somehow
magically preempt in your global contacts,
and call value that you would have it,
but that value is made
available to on fulfill at that point.
>> Speaker 1: Correct, and
actually just this morning I was testing
whether you can view value earlier.
And so I think value's assignment
still happens after all of
the call stack work is done.
So it's at the end of
the event loop cycle.
In other words, the event loop is gonna
always grab all of the call stack,
always gonna do all the synchronous
code first before add this value.
But that has no implications because it's
never gonna trigger a function anyway
until all that work is done.
So if that happens at the very end,
and then it triggers the function,
we know that functions are not going to
be triggered until that point anyway, so
who cares when that gets updated.
Okay, there was one other one.
Rick, or it was Alex, sorry, Alec.
>> Speaker 5: Yeah,
I think it's kind of similar
to that last question.
I was wondering if the onFulfilled
functions get added to
the microtask queue and
then value is updated in the meantime.
Like I'm not sure if
that would ever happen.
>> Speaker 1: What a good question.
The microtask queue,
that's such an interesting question.
The microtask queue is designed that
the event group doesn't leave it
until it's finished all tasks in it.
Meaning, by the way, if you had inside
display and auto resolve promise,
it would instantly trigger a function to
be passed to the microtask queue to be
clear on that.
The promise object auto complete,
auto had it's value and therefore
triggered the unfulfillment function or
the functions in unfulfillment.
They would be added straight
to the microtask queue.
The event would never
leave the microtask queue.
It would never actually reach
the callback queue again.
You can starve the callback queue,
that means prevent the callback queues
functions from running by
the microtask queue by it's design.
The micro microtask is designed that when
the event loop is grabbing things from it,
as long as there's something in there,
it ain't leaving even if
you're adding more as you go.
So you can always sort of think
of it as an infinite while
loop on picking out tasks
from the microtask queue.
It's very, very interesting.
I wanna add a few extra
conditions to this.
Everybody who knows promises knows there's
another property on here called status.
It has 3 values.
It can be pending, resolved,
projected, okay?
It defaults to pending when we
first return out the object.
That just means I don't yet
have a value in value.
I don't yet have a thing for the value.
My background work is
no where near done yet.
When this background work
successfully responds, that status,
property, we can even write it in,
that status,
property.
>> Speaker 1: And
this is a visible property.
That status, property, becomes resolved.
And actually it's that that triggers
theonFulfillment array of functions to run
with this value.
But [SOUND], whatever.
There's another output the status
can get which is rejected.
Rejected is when there's some
error in the background work.
Something errored, maybe the server
status came back with an error.
You didn't get a successful response.
And that's not gonna trigger
a OnFulfillment array of functions.
It's gonna trigger a different
array of functions on rejection.
And those functions,
how do we get functions in there?
And that array,
>> Speaker 6: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Speaker 1: Correct,
we parse them to future data,
not .then but .catch.
And the function we pass
the .catch will be stored in
the rejection array of functions and
be triggered there.
We can also parse it as
the second function to then,
parsing here, like I don't know,
error function.
And that will be parsed,
not to OnFulfillment, but
to a different array of functions
in here called, onRejection.
So if we get an error in any of this
process, it will not trigger display.
Instead, it will trigger the array of
functions known as the onRejection array.